Add Imports section: Extending file type support (#1980)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/imports.md

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```

## Extending file type support

You can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. There are many **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins you can use. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of Vite Documentation.

> For example, the YAML data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin:

Reviewer: Could be nice to add a subheading here — would also help people searching for YAML support.

```suggestion
### Example: YAML support

The YAML (`.yml`) data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin:
```

1. Install `@rollup/plugin-yaml`:

> ```bash
> npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
> ```

Reviewer: Indenting by four spaces will make sure this code block gets nested as part of list item 1.

````suggestion
    ```bash
    npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
    ```
````

> 2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the plugins array:

Reviewer: I might be tempted to specify “Vite plugins” specifically here:

```suggestion
2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the Vite plugins array:
```

> ```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={2,6,7,8}
> import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
> import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';
> 
> export default defineConfig(
> {
>   vite: {
>     plugins: [yaml()]
>   }
> });
> ```

Reviewer: Another indentation fix, plus a tweak to the formatting of this sample.

````suggestion
    ```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={2,5-7}
    import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
    import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';

    export default defineConfig({
      vite: {
        plugins: [yaml()]
      }
    });
    ```
````

> :::note
> Refer to your plugin's documentation to learn what configuration options it has, and how to correctly install it.
> :::

Reviewer: Same indentation note here. And what do you think about a custom heading like this for the note? I think the advice is good but because it’s inside the YAML plugin instructions, it might be good to add a title for a little more context.

````suggestion
    :::note[Using a different plugin?]
    Refer to your plugin's documentation to learn what configuration options it has, and how to correctly install it.
    :::
````

> 3. Finally, you can import YAML data using the `import` statement:

Reviewer: Nit pick, but I think this should probably “an” rather than “the”:

```suggestion
3. Finally, you can import YAML data using an `import` statement:
```

> ```js
> import yml from './data.yml';
> ```

Reviewer: One last indentation fix!

````suggestion
    ```js
    import yml from './data.yml';
    ```
````

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```

## Extending file type support

> You can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. There are many **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins you can use. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of Vite Documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins, you can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of Vite Documentation.
```

> ### Example: YAML support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

 :::note[plugin configuration]
Refer to your plugin's documentation for configuration options, and how to correctly install it.
:::

### Example: YAML support
```

Reviewer 2: Does this make it more clear that config/installing might look different for each plugin, and then below is one specific example?

(If so, then we can remove the note from lower in the page.)

Reviewer: Sure! Does it even need to be a note?

Reviewer 2: Probably not!

Reviewer 2: I'm going to commit it as a note first, to see how it looks. The advantage of a note is making sure it's clear that not EVERY plugin is as straightforward as the example given below?

I'll see if it looks too overwhelming.

The YAML (`.yml`) data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin:

1. Install `@rollup/plugin-yaml`:

    ```bash
    npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
    ```

2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the Vite plugins array:

    ```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={2,5-7}
    import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
    import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';

    export default defineConfig({
      vite: {
        plugins: [yaml()]
      }
    });
    ```

>     :::note[Using a different plugin?]
>     Refer to your plugin's documentation to learn what configuration options it has, and how to correctly install it.
>     :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :::note[every plugin is different!]
    Refer to your plugin's documentation to learn which configuration options it has, and how to correctly install it.
    :::
```
I'm trying to think of maybe a clearer title, since the asnwer to "using a different plugin?" is probably.. yes?  😅  Of alllll the plugins in the world, yes, probably using a different one!  😄

Reviewer 2: I haven't been able to come up with any thing better:

plugin configuration
configuring plugins

Thoughts?

Reviewer: The concern is that “Using a different plugin” is not clear that we mean “…from the YAML one”?

One option is just to move this content up out of the example steps and say something like this note says in the introduction after the “finding plugins” hint.

Reviewer 2: Ooh, yes, let me look at this. Maybe where we say this is an example, something about "not everything works exactly like this."

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```

## Extending file type support

With **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins, you can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of Vite Documentation.

 :::note[plugin configuration]
Refer to your plugin's documentation for configuration options, and how to correctly install it.
:::

### Example: YAML support

The YAML (`.yml`) data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin like [`@rollup/plugin-yaml`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rollup/plugin-yaml):

1. Install `@rollup/plugin-yaml`:

    ```bash
    npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
    ```

2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the Vite plugins array:

    ```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={2,5-7}
    import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
    import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';

    export default defineConfig({
      vite: {
        plugins: [yaml()]
      }
    });
    ```

> 3. Finally, you can import YAML data using an `import` statement:

Author: Another suggestion, maybe specify here we're talking about frontmatter?
Just before this we're importing into astro config, and now we're importing again. Could it be confusing as to "where" we're importing now? Alternatively something like "in Astro files" or "in your pages"..

```suggestion
3. Finally, you can import YAML data in Astro frontmatter using an `import` statement:
```

Reviewer 2: Excellent call, @swift502 !

I'd go even stronger, and title that file as an Astro component... let me make a suggestion

> 3. Finally, you can import YAML data using an `import` statement:
> 
>     ```js
>     import yml from './data.yml';
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
3. Finally, you can import YAML data into an Astro file using an `import` statement:

    ```astro title="src/components/Component.astro"
    ---
    import yml from './data.yml';
    ---
    ```
``````
What about this?

Author: Sure looks great!

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```

## Extending file type support

> With **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins, you can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of Vite Documentation.

Reviewer: Missing “the”?

```suggestion
With **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins, you can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of the Vite Documentation.
```

 :::note[plugin configuration]
Refer to your plugin's documentation for configuration options, and how to correctly install it.
:::

### Example: YAML support

The YAML (`.yml`) data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin like [`@rollup/plugin-yaml`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rollup/plugin-yaml):

1. Install `@rollup/plugin-yaml`:

    ```bash
    npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
    ```

2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the Vite plugins array:

    ```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={2,5-7}
    import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
    import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';

    export default defineConfig({
      vite: {
        plugins: [yaml()]
      }
    });
    ```

> 3. Finally, you can import YAML data into an Astro file using an `import` statement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Finally, you can import YAML data into files, such as an Astro component, `import` statement:
```
@delucis does this work for implying more types of files, but means we don't have to test a diff example?

Reviewer: I’d probably just go with this to be honest. People will let us know if it’s not working!

```suggestion
3. Finally, you can import YAML data using an `import` statement:
```

>     ```astro title="src/components/Component.astro"
>     ---
>     import yml from './data.yml';
>     ---
>     ```

Reviewer: In which case, I’d probably simplify down to just the import statement, no filename and code fences:

````suggestion
    ```js
    import yml from './data.yml';
    ```
````

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```

## Extending file type support

With **Vite** and compatible **Rollup** plugins, you can import file types which aren't natively supported by Astro. Learn where to find the plugins you need in the [Finding Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html#finding-plugins) section of Vite Documentation.

 :::note[plugin configuration]
Refer to your plugin's documentation for configuration options, and how to correctly install it.
:::

### Example: YAML support

> The YAML (`.yml`) data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The YAML (`.yml`) data format isn't natively supported by Astro, but you can add support for it by using a compatible Rollup plugin like [`@rollup/plugin-yaml`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rollup/plugin-yaml):
```

1. Install `@rollup/plugin-yaml`:

    ```bash
    npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
    ```

2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the Vite plugins array:

    ```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={2,5-7}
    import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
    import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';

    export default defineConfig({
      vite: {
        plugins: [yaml()]
      }
    });
    ```

>     :::note[Using a different plugin?]
>     Refer to your plugin's documentation to learn what configuration options it has, and how to correctly install it.
>     :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
